content/how-we-develop-a-standard.md, before:

---
title: How we develop a data standard
permalink: /about/:basename
layout: content-page
---

# {{ page.title }}

If you think you need a data standard, we need you to be able to answer some questions for us upfront.

What we need to know first:
* what do people want to use the data for?
* which questions do people want the data to answer for them?
* who will use the data?
* who will create the data?
* who owns the data - who’s the trusted source or domain expert?
* does any data currently exist?
* is there legislation for this policy/concept?
* who’s the policy lead and what policy area does it relate to?

What we’ll need later on:
* a list of all organisations that need to publish the data
* category data 

If you've been able to answer all those questions and we think you need a data standard too, we'll run a [data discovery](framework-for-data-discoveries.md) so we can understand the data need for the planning concern and gather enough information to start working on a data model.

We will publish a [technical specification](what-are-technical-specifications.md) for the data model we are working on at the earliest possible opportunity.

## Make a request for a data standard

If you've read all of this and still think you need a data standard, you can [fill in this form](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=EGg0v32c3kOociSi7zmVqJNtFJ5QP8hIuyULfIEMGvdUM0RWVUsxNUdKU0lEWktNNFVaQjdXV0JRTy4u) and we'll add your request to our backlog.

## Get involved

We work in the open and encourage you to contribute to our [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/digital-land/data-standards-backlog/discussions) so that our standards work well for everyone. You can also read about our [community principles](https://digital-land.github.io/data-standards/about/community-principles) for more information on contributions.

Commit message:

more standards to specification changes

content/how-we-develop-a-standard.md, after:

---
title: How we develop a data specification
permalink: /about/:basename
layout: content-page
---

# {{ page.title }}

If you think you need a data specification, we need you to be able to answer some questions for us upfront.

What we need to know first:
* what do people want to use the data for?
* which questions do people want the data to answer for them?
* who will use the data?
* who will create the data?
* who owns the data - who’s the trusted source or domain expert?
* does any data currently exist?
* is there legislation for this policy/concept?
* who’s the policy lead and what policy area does it relate to?

What we’ll need later on:
* a list of all organisations that need to publish the data
* category data 

If you've been able to answer all those questions and we think you need a data specification too, we'll run a [data discovery](framework-for-data-discoveries.md) so we can understand the data need for the planning concern and gather enough information to start working on a data model.

We will publish a [technical specification](what-are-technical-specifications.md) for the data model we are working on at the earliest possible opportunity.

## Make a request for a data specification

If you've read all of this and still think you need a data specification, you can [fill in this form](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=EGg0v32c3kOociSi7zmVqJNtFJ5QP8hIuyULfIEMGvdUM0RWVUsxNUdKU0lEWktNNFVaQjdXV0JRTy4u) and we'll add your request to our backlog.

## Get involved

We work in the open and encourage you to contribute to our [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/digital-land/data-standards-backlog/discussions) so that our specifications work well for everyone. You can also read about our [community principles](https://digital-land.github.io/data-standards/about/community-principles) for more information on contributions.
